http://youtu.be/JiaqOtVna1g
Your doctor has recommended that you undergo
a Dilation and Curettage, or D and C. But
what does that actually mean?
The uterus is part of a woman's reproductive
system. It's the organ that contains the growing
fetus.
The cervix forms the neck of the uterus,
and the vagina is the canal through which
conception and birth take place.
The endometrium is a soft lining that protects
the fetus during pregnancy.
Reasons for having a D and C vary. Most D
and C's are performed because the patient
has complained of unusually heavy menstrual
bleeding.
Other common problems include, uterine infection,
bleeding after sexual intercourse, incomplete
miscarriage
or the presence of polyps - small pieces of
extra tissue growing on the inside of the
uterine wall.
Then the surgeon will use a gloved hand to
conduct a vaginal examination and will check
the size and location of the uterus by pressing
on your lower abdomen.
A metal or plastic vaginal speculum is used
to gently expand the vagina and allow access
to the cervix.
Once the cervix is visible, a forcep is used
to grasp the front lip of the cervix - causing
the uterus to open a little.
Using a blunt-tipped probe, the surgeon carefully
measures the length of the uterus and takes
a small sample of tissue from the cervical
canal.
Next, the surgeon will dilate, or open the
cervix, using a series of progressively larger
metal rods called dilators.
When the cervix has expanded sufficiently,
the doctor will use a spoon-shaped instrument
called a curette to gently scrape out the
lining of the uterus. In some cases, surge
When the entire lining of the uterus has been
removed, the instruments are withdrawn.
The tissue removed will then be sent to a
laboratory for analysis.